Docs: Consolidate backend guidelines (#19823)
grafana/grafana: pkg/README.md

# Backend

This directory contains the code for the Grafana backend. This document gives an overview of the directory structure, and ongoing refactorings.

For more information on developing for the backend:

- [Backend style guide](/contribute/style-guides/backend.md)
- [Architecture](/contribute/architecture)

> ## Central folders of Grafanas backend

Reviewer: Grafana's backend

Author: ```suggestion
## Central folders of Grafana's backend
```

| folder | description |
| ------- | ----------- |

> | /pkg/api | Http Handlers and routing. Almost all handler funcs are global which is something we would like to improve in the future. Handlers should be assosicated with a struct that refers to all depedencies. Ex bus. |

Reviewer: Spelling: 
- associated
- dependencies

Not sure I understand the last two words: `Ex bus`.

Author: ```suggestion
| /pkg/api | Http Handlers and routing. Almost all handler funcs are global which is something we would like to improve in the future. Handlers should be associated with a struct that refers to all dependencies, for example, bus. |
```

| /pkg/cmd | The binaries that we build. Grafana-server and grafana-cli. |

> | /pkg/components | Mixed content of packages that we copied into Grafana and packages we implemented ourself. The Purpose of this folders should be packages that are too big for util and doesnt belong somewhere else. |

Reviewer: These two sentences could be clearer. Maybe:

A mix of third-party packages and packages we have implemented ourselves. Includes our packages that have out-grown the `util` package and don't naturally belong somewhere else.

> | /pkg/infra | Packages in infra should be packages that are used in multiple places of Grafana without knowing anything about Grafana domain. E.g. Logs, Metrics, Traces. |

Reviewer: multiple places in Grafana without knowing anything about the Grafana domain.

> | /pkg/services | Packages in services are responsible for peristing domain objects and manage the relationship between domain objects. Services should communicate with each other using DI when possible. Most part of Grafana's codebase still relay on Global state for this. Any new features going forwards should use DI. |

Reviewer: Most of Grafana's codebase still relies on global state for this.

Reviewer: Any new features going forward should use DI.

> | /pkg/tsdb | All backend implementations of the data sources in Grafana. Used by both Grafanas frontend and alerting. |

Reviewer: Grafana's

| /pkg/util | Small helper functions that are used in multiple parts of the codebase. Many functions are placed directly in the util folders which is something we want to avoid. Its better to give the util function a more descriptive package name. Ex `errutil`. |

## Central components of Grafanas backend

| package | description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| /pkg/bus | The bus! Described more below. |
| /pkg/models | This is where we keep our domain model. This package should not depend on any package outside standard library. (It does contain some refs within Grafana but that is something we should avoid going forward). |
| /pkg/registry | service management package. |

> | /pkg/services/alerting | Grafanas alerting services. The alerting engine run in a seperate go routine and should not depend on anything else within Grafana. |

Reviewer: Spelling: separate

> | /pkg/services/alerting | Grafanas alerting services. The alerting engine run in a seperate go routine and should not depend on anything else within Grafana. |

Reviewer: runs in a

> | /pkg/services/sqlstore | Currently where are database calls resides. |

Reviewer: Currently where the database logic resides
